10/15/2013 (Phnom Penh, Cambodia)

A touch of gold on the evening glow reminds me of Phnom Penh, the golden city.

In fact, the original intention of Phnom Penh is not the golden city, Penom penh, translated as the grandmother's mountain. I learned it from a move. The movie tells the story that is common in Phnom Penh. The local prostitute meets foreign tourists and then falls in love, but most prostitutes do not have the luck that the protagonist has in the movie.

In my memory, there is no special connection between Phnom Penh and the grandmother's mountain. When I first arrived in Phnom Penh, it was afternoon. I sat in the local tuktuk car and saw the golden dyed half of the city. Many shops used Khmer and Chinese. Written with the name of the shop, the motorcycle is bustling, may be because the fuel is not used well and the burning is not enough, the pungent smell of smoke is also full of the city, but this is not contradictory to Siem Reap, I prefer a little Phnom Penh. Because it is golden.

I lived in a backpacker's hotel recommended by Lonely planet with friends I met on the road. A dozen people slept in a big room. The bed I slept was against the window of the hotel. I knew that it was so cheap and crowded with foreigners. The hotel is not safe, all the valuable things are very tightly protected, and I wake up at night and wake up constantly, because there are always people coming in and out to drink and returning. Fortunately, my bed is far from the door, and I wake up a few times and then sink. Go to sleep.

Whether on the road or in life, I always change places, and when I wake up, I often have a moment to think about where I am. If you ask me the last time, or when I wake up very rarely, I will be surprised by the scenery in front of me. The first morning in Phnom Penh is that I felt the whole person bathe in the gold, in front of me. It was a blue sky, and staring at the sky through the window seemed to have forgotten the time, and then I couldn't wait to get up quickly into this beautiful gold.

I have seen a lot of blue sky, I have seen different places in the morning, the golden color in the evening, but the gold in Phnom Penh is unique.

Like most Southeast Asian countries and Hainan Province, Phnom Penh's breakfast likes to drink soup, eat powder, and then have a cup of herbal tea; different kinds of powder and noodles, as well as different flavors of soup are always nostalgic, although not as good as Thailand. Breakfast and food, but still have their own characteristics, after all, Vietnamese and Chinese, mixed with different flavors. What I miss most is the $1.5 bowl of noodles. The unique carrot bone soup is impeccable. The white powder is teasing your tongue. There is no sour and spicy in Southeast Asia. The tongue is burnt or eaten without any scruples. I am also in the noodle restaurant in Shanghai. The same is true for other diners. I especially like to observe the eclipse of the diners at this time. The most authentic, the most primitive greed for good food, is really cute.

Such a breakfast shop usually has a person with a spoon in front of the pot, next to a variety of different powders and noodles, different meats, vegetables and soups. You don’t know the language. It’s easy to understand. What, if you are lucky, you will also meet a young man who speaks Chinese or a young man who is a waiter. The number of Chinese in Phnom Penh seems to exceed that of Bangkok. Don't worry about it, don't worry about it. Anyway, try it every time. Try another match next time. It can always match different surprises.

Walking in the streets of Phnom Penh in the morning, always very lively, tuktuk drivers are always eager to take guests, the restaurants on both sides are all kinds of diners, compared to Europe, the streets of Phnom Penh are not clean, plus the hot climate, you always I feel that I have always lived in a very hot but full environment, and I feel that my body and mind are very full. One of the advantages of the less developed regions compared to the developed regions is that they are full of excitement and challenges, full of infinite changes and possibilities. What they saw yesterday may be different today, walking on the streets, between streets and streets. There is a big difference with the region. You will always encounter infinite surprises and challenges, and of course, thinking, whether it is scenery or people. And in the UK it seems that everything is the same, there is nothing too different. Now I will go to the nearby places to go shopping in the UK on weekends, but there is always no surprise, because it seems that everything is the same.

The most important thing in Southeast Asian countries is the market, also known as the market. There are well-planned markets and there are no planned markets. The market in Phnom Penh is inferior to Thailand, but it is still remarkable. There are always places in the market, and there are a group of children running barefoot and children who are begging with babies. Whether they are naive or used, they are always part of the market. Several shirtless local youths swayed through the city in simple, tattered clothes, and women sat on the floor with no expression on the stage, and foreigners stopped at the same time. I remember that a friend who studied and lived in developed countries came to Southeast Asian countries to see these markets and then shook their heads away because of the typical mess. But he may not know that the market is always full of stories and life, especially in the Southeast Asian market, full of challenges and surprises. The few English towns I have visited these weekends are famous for their markets, but in my opinion, compared to the grotesque markets in Southeast Asia, the markets in these small towns in the UK are inferior. Yes, there is a neatly planned order, clean, high-quality food, and polite English-speaking people, with almost no barriers to communication, but there is one less surprise. In contrast, I still miss the time in the Southeast Asian market, there is no common language between them, but the most primitive communication with the demeanor is always memorable.

I miss the market there very much, because it is big enough, free enough, and not restrained.

If someone asks me what kind of city Phnom Penh is, I will not say that she is 'golden, beautiful'. I will say that this is a city of suffering. Cambodia is a country of suffering. Phnom Penh is naturally a misery. city ​​of. The people here rarely have a rustic smile like Thailand and Laos. You go to the street restaurant to eat. You see people sitting on the shore along the Mekong River. They have few smiles on their faces. After all, the Khmer Rouge is Not far away, people around the age of 45 have a black story. I still remember clearly in ST21 prison, a place where Pol Pot used a school as a prison, a very narrow, dark cage, and there were about 15 cages in a classroom. You can feel it when you walk in. A chilling breath, the hot sun outside does not warm up the classrooms filled with cages, brown, gray, black, and sinking to you, most people come in and want to escape, because they are too depressed Because there are too many people tortured to death here, because of the black and white photo wall at the end of the prison, the black and white photos of all the dead people, I don’t think anyone is willing to stay inside.

But I still walked into a small prison. There is a hole in the corner of the prison that is so big with the mouse hole. It is a window to send the food to the prison. The prison is so small that there is no way for anyone to lie down. I am in this prison. I sat in it for a long time, until I couldn’t take it because I couldn’t bear this repression. After walking out of this building, I breathed a lot, and the hot sun could not be dispersed. The Khmer Rouge took away a quarter of Cambodia’s population. This haze has not been dispersed for a long time.

Therefore, you can see children who ask for money with bare feet, English speaking well to young hotel waiters and tuktuk drivers without accents, because English means good life means you can watch To the expressionless young people, as well as the young girls in the bar, all kinds of charming girls on the street, you will be pity, you will feel sad, you will be angry, you will be helpless, of course, you will be amazed, will feel, will Surprise, will be happy. My days in Cambodia are mixed, I am worried about traveling at night, because I am next to the hotel where I live. A Japanese single girl was shot in the market a month ago, and the Phnom Penh was going through various kinds of parades because of the election. At night, the riot police always go through the hotel where I live by car; I am also worried about being blackmailed because the people of this country need money too much, and I am definitely not a good one to be blackmailed. I am still worried about being overwhelmed by depression, and because I saw the ST21 prison, I saw the land of killing, read the book of the Khmer Rouge, and watched the movie of the Killing Land.

However, all this worry, when I complained to the girl at the front desk of the first backpacking hotel where I lived, complaining that after half an hour of dry-cleaning clothes were not delivered, the younger son of the dry cleaner owner held me. The appearance of clothes wrapped smiles, my grievances and anger disappeared in a flash; I chatted with this bad girl for half an hour and learned that she worked very late every night before riding a motorcycle. I understood her; I went to the temple in Phnom Penh in the evening to meditate. I saw a unique night view of Phnom Penh after a long walk in the evening. After I ran away in the hot sun, I finally found a restaurant. After the smile came, it disappeared. I always think that the most important thing for deep travel is that it requires an empathy. She will teach you to go deeper into the city. This country, she understands her bitterness and sweetness, pride and helplessness.

By the way, in the two major cities of Cambodia, Phnom Penh and Siem Reap, you don’t need to worry about language at all, because most of the people here speak English well. But I just don’t like people in non-English speaking countries. English can be said so well. Besides knowing that they speak English in order to better serve foreigners, what’s more important is that travellers coming to a non-English speaking country should be needed by travelers. Learn the language of the other country, not the other country to learn the international language. Cambodia is an exception, because they rely on foreigners to pull the economy, so only young girls dress up sexy to find whites in the bar, only the tuktuk driver speaks English without accent, and there are all kinds of barefoot children on the street. Grasping the sight of foreigners asking for money.

This is a tragedy and a helplessness.

The magnificent Khmer culture in Angkor Wat did not leave any profound impact on me, but it was impressive in the 10 days of Phnom Penh. I followed a few Japanese people to the villages of a province near Phnom Penh, as well as their markets. The dust was everywhere, the flies flew, and the heat was so dehydrating that the weather was really uncomfortable. We went. In a rural school, a local family eats. The students ride on Japanese second-hand bicycles that are not in line with their height. The children are still basically naked and tattered clothes, and the women sit together in the tall house. The lower layer is cool. Walking in the field and seeing the endless rice and palm trees, I thought of the movie "The Killing Land" and the book "They Killed My Father First". In the Khmer Rouge period, people spent nearly 20 hours working in the country for a day. I felt that my brain was dizzy, as if I saw people wearing black clothes around the red scarf, and they died in pieces. The body rotted the earth and eroded people's hearts.

The feeling that people want to escape but can't escape is impressive.

Fortunately, Phnom Penh is a city that makes people feel new. The heavy history has not let them indulge in the past. In this city full of opportunities and hopes everywhere, you can always feel hope in depression and feel helpless. Hope, hope for hope in many young people. Hope, it is everything that you think is considered dark, gray, the most beautiful and beautiful.

"You will like Phnom Penh. Look, I can use my scooter to take you around the city if you want to." A young man who lives in Phnom Penh said to me.


11/09/2014 (London, United Kingdom)


There is an old saying "When a man is tried of London, he is tired of life".

As a person who likes the colorful life and multicultural atmosphere of modern big cities, I like London very much. There are bright and energetic people here. There are melodious violins that come out on the street and inadvertently hear folk artists popping up. It can bring surprises to the window display, there are all kinds of graffiti murals in the subway, and high-quality and sensational literary public advertisements and creative commercial advertisements. There is never a shortage of food here.

Metropolis, the surface of bustling fashion, mostly with noisy, sea of ​​people, hastily coexisted. I have lived in Shanghai, and I have traveled to Hong Kong and Singapore twice. The three most famous metropolises in the Asia-Pacific region have very busy transportation systems, colorful harbors and always bright financial districts, all of which are shopping. It’s all known – walking a block is a big shopping mall, but just like a dish full of flavors that makes diners feel like they lack taste after tasting, it seems to have lost some very core things.

I call the missing element - salt.

Imagine that in the crowded subway passage during the peak hours of work in London, you are not only rushing and eager to get out quickly, but there is a melodious and energetic accordion sound, what will your mood look like; Imagine if you are still rushing to meet with friends or colleagues and trotting into an old-fashioned water-pipelined subway channel like a ballistic trajectory with mosaic graffiti on both sides and above. Can this surprise be allowed? You pause a little and stop to appreciate it a little; and, as you wait for the subway to arrive, you will see an ad poster that looks forward to people making different changes in the third world for people in different ways. When will you feel the warmth of the city?

And these things that make people slow down and feel a little pleasant, warm and warm heart is what I think of salt. I always think that when you are rushing forward, what you need most often is a moment of slowing down, when you are upset When I’m in a hurry, the most important thing is to calm my heart first, so I’m also deeply impressed and still reminiscent of it. When I walked through the subway channel in London’s peak, I suddenly heard the lively and pleasant accordion sound. The mood is like a cool breeze that suddenly blows away the heat, and instantly makes people feel refreshed and beautiful.

I believe that such moments are staged in different places in London every day.

I also heard that in the Piccadilly circus subway station there is always a very talented folk artist playing, and indeed walking in London's train station, the subway or the street can always see people playing, and people who play and dance. There are all kinds of ethnic groups in London. What kind of skin color, ethnicity and people in the country can be seen here. They speak different languages ​​and cultures. It seems that in London, people rarely see the harbor. People's anxiety and the expression of people living in Shanghai are expressionless, and more people feel their passion for life. Of course, it’s just "seemingly", because after all, it’s just a visitor. I can’t understand much. I just watch the crowded people on the street. Every Friday and Saturday night, the bar is always full, and forever patient and friendly. The people you guide or take you to where you want to go can reach such a conclusion that is less responsible and has only one opinion.

Although I like the quietness of small towns and sometimes I feel dizzy when I see people, I can't resist the temptation of London. In the small town where I live, the shop on the working day runs until 6 pm at the latest, and most of the time on Saturday is 2-4 pm. On Sunday, there are some that simply don't open the door. I am naturally ruined and love London night. lively. I went to London to add up to nearly 3 times, did not go to the British Museum, the parliament building, various churches, but went to a large art gallery and two The park, and every time I go to Oxford Street and eat in Chinatown, it’s been a long walk in Oxford Street. I am always envious of London's lack of exhibitions and shopping. The colorful and pleasant life is endless. I heard that some British people have never been to London for a lifetime, and some British people have complained about the "noisy, noisy, and crowded people" in London. Most people are not willing to go out of their comfort zone is a normal, but I always do not want to agree, on the contrary I always try to get out of my comfort zone. So every time I hear such words, I can see all kinds of things in London, always thinking about how much they have to miss.

If you think that London means shopping, then the understanding is too superficial. In addition to street artists and cultural graffiti, as well as poster advertisements for various opera musicals in the subway channel, what touches me most is to tell people in the form of stories to make some changes for the people, women or children who are suffering in the third world. Think about the touching advertisements at the time of the advertising class, which seems to be starting to become common in London, and each one is different. There are two more memorable memories. One is telling you in a story-telling way that some girls in some African countries cannot buy sanitary napkins during the menstrual period, and there is also a woman who escaped from the massacre to start her own drumming career in order to survive. As the originator of social enterprises, Britain has never lacked the efforts and creativity in social innovation, and regrets that it has no extra time and energy to study them. This kind of poster is rarely seen in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore, but it is always very common and impressive in London.

When I left last night, I saw an advertisement, a white background, and a few lines in the subway in a hurry:

My mum works on the tube. Last night someone shouted at her again.

I thought she was crying but she said it was just something in her eye.

My mother worked in the subway and someone yelled at her last night. I saw her crying yesterday, but she just said that she had something in her eyes.

Below the poster is a small line:

Our staff are here to advise you in a polite and helpful way. Abusing or swearing at them is offensive, unacceptable and TFL will prosecute offenders. So consider the consequences.

The mayor of London is signed at the bottom left of the poster.

Very simple language, reflecting the concern and respect for grassroots workers, although sometimes not very satisfied with the attitude of subway or train ticket sellers, but I think they continue to do repetitive work, numbness and coldness are understandable. But it is not lacking in courtesy. People with a sense of social responsibility often say how to protect the rights of grassroots workers and give them a sense of security. I think this simple way is a way to give a sense of security.

It’s a pity that I am in London and it’s just a visitor. But I am still young, who knows if there is any possibility of living in London in the future.


02/07/2015 (Cordoba, Spain)

One night before going to bed, I suddenly thought about the Spanish old man who I met in a private gallery in Malaga. He is a short gentleman who gave me a our in his gallery before the gallery closed. It seems like each time I passed through a gallery in Europe, I would go inside an take a look. This man told me that he travelled all over the world to make his paintings done. This Indian women was the hostess at his host family in India. The girl sitting on the steps was painted in Paris. These little monks were in Nepal. At that time, the sunset was in a certain place in Africa. This man doesn’t speak English at all and my Spanish is limited, so he spoke it a very slow pace and told me where did he do the paintings. He then shown me his studio and enthusiastically introduced me his artwork though I told him earlier that I can’t afford those paintings. In fact, there is nothing in the gallery that makes me particularly impressive. The chat with the old man seems to have no bright spots, but it seems to be the gentleman's handshake. The true smile and the polite kiss are so rememberable. Before habitually picking up some beautiful pieces to recall before going to bed, this picture jumped out of my head last night.

Recently, I have lived a completely divided life. Today I look at all kinds of materials and live a serious and savvy life with clear thinking. Tomorrow is a gentle and spiritual wandering look at past photos and articles to listen to the music that is moving to the bottom of my heart. The night of the lost life, since the article only talks about the wind and the moon, it is still about some people who met in this short trip in Europe. Anyway, most European churches and palaces do not understand, just by appearance. Beauty gives a visual impact and then there is no impression of Google, but some people can remember, even if it is just a few words or eye contact, or a hug and kiss seems to be able to take a back and forth.

Then talk about those street performers today.

When I just got out of the airport in Barcelona and took the train to the city, there were four young people playing in the train, mixing the train all the way to the idyllic scenery and beautiful sunshine in the city center. A feeling is so cheerful and bright. Whether it's in the subway or on the main street, it seems that there is no music. Catalonia's Rumba guitar, Spanish guitar or cheerful or sad jazz are so consistent with my taste. There are a lot of sexy street performers who will squint at you after you give him a coin. The moment is simply sexy, and I keep giving them coins for such a blink of an eye. I am really good at buying it, a wink conquers. Me, just like the buena vista social club's concert in Amsterdam, Compay Segundo looked at the companion's blink of the camera. The blink of an eye and the cigar sitting on the classic car on the street in the burnt Havana seems to be My heart has been frozen forever, the sexy old man.

In the famous Roman bridge in Geldova, he met a painter with long hair. He painted his glass with colorful paint on his glass. Most of the paintings were famous in Gedova: Roman Bridge, Baihua Lane, Orange trees and flowers on the wall. There are many artists on this short bridge, the girl who plays the violin, the people who put their own handmade jewelry, the musician who plays the guitar, and the actress who stands upright at the bridge; the bridge is very Short, the sun is very bright, and there are many tourists. Gedova is the largest city in Europe in the 10th century. Its ancient and quiet Roman bridge and the Guadalquivir River, which has been flowing for thousands of years, do not feel that it has experienced vicissitudes. It’s so lively because of the bustling tourists and the variety of entertainers, "You sing and I’m on the stage", even the big Muslim palace with the mosque that I forgot my name near the north shore of the bridge is the circle of the South Bank. The old building on the top is not as stunning and nostalgic as this bridge. You can walk on the bridge to see the performances of various artists. You can also sit on the bridge and watch this beautiful and quiet river slowly. After that, you can also stand on the bridge gallery and see the children playing and playing. The lovers are kissing and the birds are eating by the river, or they are quietly watching the sun on the north bank. And south of the church building and dome can also be dyed gold, that time you only have a feeling that the world is so beautiful too beautiful, beautiful to breathtaking.

The Roman Bridge is a bridge that makes people happy.

I met a gentle artist here, the man with long hair painting on the glass. I stood next to him and watched him paint. After watching it for some time, he asked me:

 "Describe your favorite scenery and I will paint it out."

"Ah, don't know. I am just take a look. "

"Look, this is the bridge in the evening, and that is the bridge with the sunrise, and this is the flowers Lane." He told in Spanish slowly. If I didn't understand it, he would tell me with some of his only English. .

In fact, they are very typical of the scenery of Gedova, and most of them are sold to me. He uses a few different fingers on a white stone with various colors of paint, and then painted on the glass, a fingerprint It is a flower, a bright moon, painting very fast, I like it too, just ask him to paint the orange trees in Andalusia, I want to bring the memories of Andalusia home.

During the process of seeing the hair getting the paint, he stopped the hand to help me find the paper towel to wipe it off. I repeatedly said that it was all right when he finally found the only hand towel, there is still color on it, but he is sorry to tell me that this is He had only the handkerchief, and then gently and gently wiped off the dry, unpainted paint on the hair. I saw his gentle eyes through his brown hair in the setting sun.

Finally, I took an orange tree and a potted flower in the corner of the wall.

On the eve of Christmas Eve, Sevilla and the newly met Japanese friend chatted and walked in the ancient city. They met an old man playing a Christmas song, thinking that he should go home during the reunion day. The change was put in the hat in front of him, and I saw my Japanese friend smile at me. In Granada and Singapore, the tenants walked back to the ancient city along the church in the middle of the night. The street was quiet as if we were only two people. In the distance, the moon river, which was played by the accordion, drunk the cold night of Granada. When I walked in, I saw a blind man wrapped in a corner and quietly pulled it, so I went up and put the remaining coins. They were all given to him. In the chilly night of Granada, which is frozen in the cold, I just want to be able to send him home as soon as I can.

In fact, no matter which city of Spain I have been to, in the big city or the ancient city, you can always hear the music that is moving from you in the distance, when Seville and friends are separated. Sitting in the square listening to the bells of the church, the music of the old man playing the Spanish guitar in the square went straight into the bottom of my heart, as if to say the sadness and regret in my heart, sitting and sitting and actually smashed the past. At the viewpoint of Granada, a painter tells me that he can give me a picture for free and change me a kiss, and I have done this thing that is simple for me. painting.

I love these artists very much. They are warm, sincere, and friendly. They make the world soft and sexy.

I heard a pair of jazz musicians playing in Guell Park in Barcelona. I stood on the opposite side and smoked at them. The saxophonist with a beard was also looking at me, and the back was facing them as they looked down. I saw how beautiful the faces of people bathed in the sun. Music naturally enters the bottom of my heart as if I have forgotten the time. After I left the park, I remembered to buy their CDs. When I went up the mountain, I saw unexpected. The beautiful scenery decided to buy the CD and then come back to see the original way. However, after returning, I found that they were not there anymore, and then I wanted to find the beautiful scenery of the bus when I went up the mountain, but found that the route was wrong. I went around 3 times. A total of 3 times down the mountain, once again found the area, the sun has already gone down. Didn't buy a CD, didn't end up in that amazing area during the day, but at least they appreciated their beauty, even for a moment or ten minutes.



01/07/2015 (Aachen, Germany)

I had a phone call with a friend today. He just finished a four-month solo trip and back to Germany. When I told him that I have been wanting to get out to breathe and see the fallen leaves, it sort of reminded me of our walk back to four years ago. I was visiting him and his family in the winter in Germany. We walked to a small forest next to his house in the evening. It was a total dark and there was nobody and no light. In my memory, that was a tranquil and dark forest where I can only see roots and trunk in black. It was a nice little walk. We walked across the stream and stem.
I was following him, and I told him that I wanted to stay forever young and was afraid to grow up. And he told me "If you want to stay forever young, you will have to die young."
I don't remember the rest of the conversation. We found our way back to have dinner. From the dark to see the small town, I found the yellowish street light was charming yet lonely. His family was waiting for us.
When we talked about this over the phone again, he said "It sounds like Murakami's novel. We walked along the forest and there were only two of us. We talked about youth, life and death".
I guess I would just miss the day when we walked quietly in the forest and made a nice conversation.



02/14/2015 (Lisbon, Portugal)

The sun is so warm and bright
that ruined the cold that I brought from the North.
There are buildings Far from the high and low buildings, backed by the mountains
There are chasing children on the street
People walking slowly on the square
"The old tram is passing through the city day and night, accompanied with Fado’s joyfulness and sadness"
The wandering painter gave me his painting
The singer sings cheerfully by the river
I want to bring the winter of Lisbon to the summer here in Shanghai
to make the air full of freedom and romance
The soul should always be true
"I stand on the edge of the land, and there is an endless journey in front of me."




09/04/2015 (Yangon, Myanmar)

It is actually easy to go Myanmar, but I have been waiting for a year since I decided that I want to go this country. The money I earned in the UK can finally be used as a toll. My parents always take my wish to go to Myanmar as a joke and they didn’t pay much attention to it. When I came back from Shanghai, I was very happy to announce in the car. My mother came up with a sentence: I said that the place is fighting, it’s not safe, don’t go.

I didn't sleep until 4 in the morning, not the words that my mother said, because I always believed that no one in the world could stop me from doing anything. It was only me who could stop me, but because I started to have fear. When I got off the plane and I got home, I immediately turned on the computer. The latest news I searched was also the Battle of North Korea in April. I have heard about the war in North and North. But even this still can’t dispel my fear, in order to fill in my heart. Insecure, I searched for a recent post on the poor travel network and asked several friends who had been to Myanmar last year. The answer is that the tourist area is quite safe, but it is not recommended. At that time, I was obsessed with trying to find someone to give me a reason to let me go through this fear. Who is better at 2 o'clock in the morning, I thought of Michael.

M is a Hong Kong native. When I first went to Hong Kong, I experienced a sofa guest. I sent a request to more than 20 sofa owners. M is one of the few who responded to me. He has very attractive information, up to 200 positive reviews, and a university in the UK. After working in Hong Kong for one year in Hong Kong for one year, I have experienced death for a long time. It seems to be a very storyteller. Unfortunately, M went to Shanghai for an Italian lover and couldn't receive me, but we were very happy when I was in Skype. Later, he went to Jinan to participate in my live-action library and became a real-life book. I am in Beijing separately. Hong Kong has seen each other again. We learned that after he went to Lebanon a year and a half ago, we have no contact, but I know where to find him. Sure enough, M replied to me. He patiently listened to my voice bomb and mentioned one thing: Do you remember the last time there was no electricity, did you cry and call me?

"You still remember that." I was embarrassed to say that my thoughts returned to the Thai town near Myanmar two years ago, because the town had a power outage and then cried to call M in Hong Kong. That time, I experienced the airport being stopped, the journey was deceived, the visa was not easy to do, and the dog was chased and so on. Then I went to this small town where there was no one. The power outage exposed all my uneasiness and fear in my heart. M received me. When I was on the phone with a crying voice, I called my name in Mandarin. Let me walk out of the dark door to describe the surrounding scenery and breathe the fresh air. This effectively stabilized me. Maybe since then, when I am uneasy, I will talk to him.

"No matter where you go, it would definitely be dangerous if you go travel alone. But if you are confident enough, nothing can stop you."

"I think I am still quite confident." I went back.

"This self-confidence means that you can protect yourself under any circumstances.  Remember you cried in that town last time, don’t you think being emotional will make the situation worse?"


Even if he wanted to go from Lebanon to Germany the next day, he still talked with me very late. At 4 o'clock in the morning, I still couldn't get any energy from M to let me feel at ease in Myanmar. I slept with a headache, early in the morning. Get up again.


I saw the stickers of two poor travel nets. The two landlords did not waste the visa validity period. I walked through the unusual road in Myanmar within one month. I was moved by the photos and stories, because in their stories, the country is full of Kind and friendly, after reading their long posts, I calmed down for a while, bought the ticket and visa within half an hour, and I took a deep breath and gave back to some other friends who advised me not to go. words:

"Fear doesn’t come from war, it comes from heart."

Moreover, there are only a few border areas in the war.


I have been in the comfort circle for too long. I think the imaginary enemy is too strong and thinks that I am too vulnerable. I still have a lot of fear. Others will not take the step because of fear, and I am not willing to take this. One step is tangled, however, when I face my heart, I find that most of the fears are imaginary.

My parents said that they would go to the tourist area, and the Three Cities which is Yangon, Bagan,Mandalay, and Ine Lake would be fine. I will eventually choose the classic tourist route as always. The Raiders did not do, the accommodation was not fixed, but it was often attacked by the North of Myanmar, the courageous Wang Pengjiasheng, the big poisonous Qiankunsha, my fellow villager Myanmar’s fourth SAR Lin Mingxian’s gossip attracted reading late into the night, turning over George Orwell’s The Year of Myanmar, read Mandler of the poet Kipling several times, and brought four sets of clothes to change, and the bags were not full and set off.

It turns out that no matter what path, what choices, surprises are waiting for you, because Myanmar is really a friendly and kind country.

I went to Pyay, a small town on the Irrawaddy River. I was so tired that I took a car for more than six hours and got tired. I was surrounded by a bunch of motorcycle drivers at the station and saw two foreigners running across. It turned out that the owner of the hotel where they lived sent them to the station. The boss later took me back to the town center. I sat in his tuktuk car and watched the city full of yellow-grey Pyay. I thought about myself. I came to this place. I was surprised by the words "Please take care of the tourists" in English and Burmese on one card. It was only when I wanted to find a place with hot water. The boss took me to several places. I also decided to set up a hotel. When I gave him a pack of Chinese tea, I went to Pyay for 5 days. I went to see him when I passed his hotel. It’s my good Japan. My friend Mihoshi lived there for many days before he was here, so he felt a little closer.



Speaking of a bad cold, I don’t know why I started crying in the room. I didn’t know whether it was a nose or a tear in the floor. I decided to not cry after crying halfway. Go out and look for food, pork, green soup, white rice, find A restaurant opened by a Chinese named "San Francisco". The treasurer’s look is the Chinese appearance, but I don’t understand what I am talking about. I only use Chinese to say "wait a minute". After a few minutes, an old lady comes out from the kitchen and her face is covered with Turnerka. I said, "What do you want to eat? I will let them cook for you." When I sat down to eat, my tears began to rush out. The old lady looked at me with affection. I kept chatting with me and asked if I had any medicine. Other waiters are full of goodwill to smile at me, but the more they are good to me, my tears can't stop.



I remembered the rainy winter in Granada, Spain. I was on the road and just wanted to find a warm restaurant to eat, but all the Spanish restaurants were almost full. I went to a Chinese under the guidance of local Chinese shops. The restaurant was very satisfying and spent 6 euros on a table after eating a meal. The waiter from Zhejiang, "Señora, Señora," called me and asked if I had any medicine to eat and could not forget.

The same scene reappears, only in Myanmar.

In the next few days, I was eating in my grandmother's shop. I once walked along the river during the day. I had just experienced flooding. The water flooded the houses built by the people themselves, and the simple houses on the riverside were poor people. They took a simpler place in a higher place. When I walked all the way, everyone was curious to look at me. A little girl looked at me and didn't smile at me, but she followed me and walked to a small "house". I saw a little boy eating the rice in the bowl, and his The younger brother and dad are sleeping. He turned to look at me and turned to continue to dig rice. I saw that there was no rice in his bowl. I was really uncomfortable. I handed the cake that my grandmother gave me to the little girl. The gesture made her share the little boy. She gave the cake to the little boy. When the child didn't pick up, she said something in Burmese. I took the cake in half and gestured to her saying that the two were eating, but the girl still had to give the child, I didn't say anything, turned around and shed tears. You see, there are still people in this world who still have enough to eat, but they still know how to care for others.

In Pyay, I was sick and talked to the owner of the hotel about the floods in Myanmar. Several provinces were flooded. Kachin, Kaya, Rakhine, Magui is more serious. My place is said to be slightly downstream. The direction of walking is a relatively serious disaster. I contacted the Japanese girlfriend on the Internet and wanted to donate some money and things. So she introduced the Burmese Stu, who teaches Aikido and Japanese in the local area. It is said that his father is in the local disaster relief. I found his aiki. After the pavilion, he drove the tuktuk to take me to a place where the disaster was heavy, but because of the good weather in the days I arrived, the water had faded a lot.

"Look, her it is. It was full of water before, but not it is gone."

Later, he took me to a material assembly area. There was a big indoor black pressure. People who lost their homes. The materials from Yangon were shipped by car and car. Everyone was waiting in line to receive daily necessities. I suddenly I saw the college student, who was in the neighboring seat from Yangon to Pyay, ran over and said hello, saying that he was preparing to take the boat to the people in the boat because they did not want to leave their home. In Pyay, the hotel took out the porridge, and every household sent the bread with their own bread. The grandmother’s porridge was actually given to the victims. I also saw the waiter in the grandmother’s restaurant. He also With my grandmother's beautiful granddaughter and a Chinese-speaking friend, they are going to take the boat in with the food, and then ask me if I want to go in together, I will take the food out of the bag and give it to them, and I will decline.

I remember the last time I went to the countryside with three Japanese youths in Cambodia, but I heard that there was a red eye disease in the area and decided not to stay overnight. The reason why I didn’t go with them this time was also worried about infectious diseases. Maybe, but in fact, I want to go in. I sometimes feel ashamed of my own reason. When can I break through this psychological defense line from the outside world?

Thoughts turned around and looked at the ceiling in the dark. I thought about the people who were still impressed in the heads I met in two weeks, and thought of the two people who said love to me. One is the little brother of Myanmar who met at the restaurant. Since he sent me back to contact information that day, I waited for a long time at the door of the hotel where he worked, and then waited for a long time in the temple after quit his job. I know that after he has no job, he told him to go to a job to support himself, and he thought about contacting the Japanese girlfriend to see how he could help him. The last night he insisted on going to the temple to see me, right. The Burmese man who borrowed my mobile phone was embarrassed to say a few words of Burmese. I always remembered that although I don't know Burmese, I can get the happiness from his God's emotions and fall into the happiness of love.

There are also Japanese people who met Mao Momo, volunteering to be a motorcycle driver to dig around the interesting places around Mawlamyine. They have been just ordinary friends, and I sent a kimono on the last day and sent me to the bus. When I suddenly asked for marriage, I thought that the other party was joking, but I didn’t take it seriously, but in the later network communication, no matter how I refused him or how serious it was, I carefully dealt with it without hurting him. feeling.

I can understand them very much. The sincere feelings are touching in any situation. I don't want to break the connection in order to escape. It is more important than to talk slowly and understand each other.

I looked up and found that it was nearly 4 am, and I was awakened by the construction team downstairs at 6 o’clock. My room was facing the east. It was clear that the sun behind the floor was squatting. Rise, the new day is coming again.


12/31/2015 (Shanghai, China)

At this time last year, I was lying sick in the bed of a youth hostel in Malaga. My roommate, a Russian, was obviously very puzzled that I was still sleeping.

"Today is the last day of 2014. Don't you want to go to any bar to play? Come go with us."

"No, I have to sleep."

"Come on, come play, the New Year is coming, let's go to the bar to dance." The Russians are coming to catch me.

"You have fun, I want to sleep. Remember to turn off the lights when you leave." I laughed and slammed the past.

This youth hostel is close to the street. The excitement of the young people outside seems to have nothing to do with me. Since Seville caught a cold, I have never seen it. The flight to France in the morning is cancelled. I have no experience at the airport. I was so stupid to cry for a long time, I bought a ticket again and went to Paris the next day. I was so embarrassed to tell people that I had been crying for so long because the plane was canceled. After all, I have never been afraid of being a world-class woman. appearance.

I know my heart disease, I have been ill since I fell in love in Seville. Whether in Geldova, Granada, Málaga, I have been thinking about the five hours and the promises given to me by the other party. Even if there is no news at all, I will still try to get in touch with him, although there is no result. At that time, I was full of pain and expectation. As long as he had a message, I could immediately change all my trips to Germany to find him.

I slept from 4 o'clock in the afternoon to 8 o'clock. After the Russians left, I couldn't sleep anymore. I simply walked away. The small town of Malaga, in addition to the warm sunshine of the Mediterranean, does not seem to have much of a feature. On the day before the New Year, the street was relatively deserted, and it gradually became angry when it reached the main road.

The characteristics of Spanish New Year are that everyone gathers in the square and waits for the gift package and the grape pie. When you ring the clock 12 times and eat a grape, who can finish the grape in this 12 seconds means good luck, many people come out. Leading the grape, the upstairs bar is full of carnival people, the stage is also ready to build, I just met the Malaysian girl, and a few young Spanish girls, just sitting on the side of the road waiting for the show And then dance.

At that time, I recorded this happy moment:

In Malaga and the countdown to the crowd, the moment when the New Year's bell remembers, I can't help but shed tears. Everyone around me says Feliz ano nueva in Spanish. The last day of 2014, 2015 On the first day, I spent in Malaga. I saw young couples kissing and crying. I saw couples dancing with music. I saw young people toasting each other and I saw people picking up the camera. Taking these moments, I saw no matter what I know, I don’t know, and I’m only a group. Everyone embraces and kisses each other. I see people dancing to the music and wishing each other a happy New Year. Everyone’s face is Happy smile, tears moved. Now I have to leave Spain, in just two weeks, I feel romantic in Barcelona, ​​meet love in Seville, be gentle and caress in Geldova, experience in Granada Shocked and moved, celebrating happiness in Malaga, as they say, love, everywhere.

2015, I am looking for the meaning of life.

Back to the UK, it’s a big one. I’m crazy to find the meaning of existence, the meaning of life, turn off all the interference from the outside world, and lie on the ground again and again to write how I want to be happy. And happy. However, I have to hurt the person who loves me over and over again, to pursue the thorny rose, to get the impossible result from the illusion without any result, to close myself and do the stupid things in the sacred. During those days, I was so confused that I didn’t know how to adjust myself. When I was sad, I only cried, and when I was empty, I could only be dazed and looking for nothing.

I know very well that I want to love, want to have color, tension, and passion.

The cold wind of Britain does not calm my heart, the winter is slowly passing, and the spring is quietly coming.

The pony slowly came to the world, and the lambs began to sing on the grass. I saw the most wanted performances and operas in London, and I also met a boy. In May, it was the best time in the UK. In the days when I didn’t go to work on weekends, I went to London to find him. We danced in the streets of London at midnight, kissed the end of the train on the last subway, and watched at night. After the concert, I walked 2 hours from the city center along the subway to the residence. We treat each other truly, I don't know if it is love, but that May makes my heart shine brightly, and in the sunshine of Britain, the enthusiasm blooms.

In the second half of 2015, I was looking for a new trip, and in my new job, I was thinking about what is love. Love is as romantic as a spark, or a long-lasting stream of water, whether love can give new meaning to life, whether love can make people forget everything, whether love can make people understand, in this world, only love and trust can not Live up to.

One day before going to bed, I was shocked to find that I was loved for so many years, but I still don’t know how to love, and I made up my mind that I will use a year to find love and love it from a certain day in the future.

That time I wrote on the floor over and over again, thinking about how to get happiness and happiness and the meaning of life, this is written on paper:

"A consistent dedication will make us harvest love, happiness, and happiness."

And the consideration of a person's life is not to see what is gained, but what to pay.

I wish you all a Happy New Year.

02/10/2016 (Haikou, China)


Some of my friends have seen these days are mostly upset about the current work. The initial passion and freshness have long since faded away, and the rest is endless busy and tired. What impressed me the most was a friend who worked in the court every time I came back. I really enjoy talking with him. He can always share his discoveries and stories about learning and work in Taiwan with his unique humor. Recently, he was asked to come out. Although there are still new stories, I have seen a kind of exhaustion that has not been seen before.

I certainly understand. In the time when I was raising horses in the UK, I was very happy in the first two months. The new environment has a new challenge, from horses and horses to horses and shovel horses to mowing the fence to wash the tractor. When I look through the logs of my former circle of friends, I can always read the joy of my own words. But when it's fresh, the time behind it gets tired, especially when it comes to a strict management of the racecourse. It's just like working on a machine and not letting you try something challenging. Others only feel that horses are interesting and glamorous. They see that they are dressed up in high-end events and places, but they don’t know the road to raising horses.

Fortunately, at the time, except for 8 hours of work a day, the rest of the time was his own. So the question I think most often is: What do we want for a lifetime?

Yesterday, I fell asleep on the sofa reading a book. When I woke up, my dad sat next to tea, and later talked to me for a long time. I have always been very fortunate to have such enlightened parents. The people around me can become a powerful harbor. Let me boldly go out and fly. I will not stop my brave advancement with love and protection as a reason, but I always welcome me to go home at any time. . This is not the luck and happiness that everyone can have. During the conversation, Dad said a word, people are short-lived, they must know how to enjoy their own life, to experience, to love. I have a feeling of heart and tell him that I met someone who impressed me when I was in Myanmar. His strong posture is in stark contrast with other thin Burmese people. His eyes are full of spirits and his words are strong. Even at a certain age, you can still feel the vitality of life.

On the face of the station, he sat next to me, a Sino-Burmese , who spoke fluent British English. I talked to him for a while and asked:

"You look very different. Why is that? You speak fluent English and you look great. It is so different from other people here."

"I walk every day and walk for a long distance. I used to go to English school here. The British colonial Yangon was very prosperous. I worked as a translator and an English teacher here." He looked ahead. Say.

I don't remember what I said, and I remember that "I don't want to torture myself."

After I finished this story with my dad, I told him why I would go running, I would like to walk for a long time, and I would do all sorts of things. In fact, I hope that even if I am at the age of the old gentleman, I can still Strong body, gaze, still love new things, passionate about life and the world.

"Youth should not supposed to be defined by age." My dad recognizes me because he is also a very young person.

Even if the advertisement is playing, the public opinion is pushing, there are not many people who dare to be themselves in this world, just as you have to admit that the interesting people in the world are still a minority. After watching the chicken blood, you can bravely go out and change. There are still too few people, and you can hardly tell. The person you want to be is you or the one who is well dressed, fame and fortune, successful career, family and jealousy. ". In a meal, most of the people who come to work in well-known companies with overseas study abroad, but when asked about the "what do you want to do" and other issues that are ideal, everyone's answer is the same.

I am not a person who is only full of "ideal" and never wants to make money. I am still working on another job to find ways to make more money by order or other means, but life is only the path of others, but Can't you go out of your own?


From being a real-life library to a variety of people, to traveling and bravely to experience more people with different ways of living, these processes teach me the most unique thing is that everyone is different but yet identical. It is precisely because of this that I will not admire people who look bright and beautiful, because I know that there may be exaggerated facts behind them, and there are hardships that you and I don’t know; on the contrary, the appearance looks "insignificant". I will not look down on people, because I know that everyone has unfamiliar pride and persistence, and their dedication is worthy of respect.

The person you want to be is not necessarily less than your troubles, nor is it more than your happiness. It is only self-awareness, why not look for something that belongs to you, or a bigger one, life?

Not long ago, I taught in the Muslim area of ​​Qingzhou, Shandong, five years ago that I wanted to talk to me because they had a social practice assignment and she wanted to do some interviews. That year, my freshman had just finished, and now she is also a freshman. She is the most impressed student among the mischievous students. She is pure and sinister, and the English is also very good. During the 5 years we stayed in touch on social networks, occasionally interacting, but rarely communicating. She said one such proposition and asked me what I thought, as follows:

"You know, I don’t understand why people make a donation when they can’t feed themselves. How do you think about that?"

"If they think this will make them happy. I won’t judge."

"But don't you feel they are stupid? How can you make a real donation if you aren’t able to feed yourself? I don't think this works" she said.

"My thoughts would be the same as you when I was younger. But I won’t judge because I don’t know how they think. You asked me what I have been learning these years. The biggest take ways is I tend not to judge people and not impose my ideas to others. They have right to do whatever they want as long as they feel good."


Slowly, I suddenly felt what I was looking for and what I wanted to achieve. She is very vague, but I can feel that she is there and only has time to make her clearer.

"So what do you want to do?" He teas with friends that day, he asked me, this is also the question I have been asking me in the UK: I have been looking for 23 years, and I will continue to search for what I want.

"I think, I want to make some changes. I don't like to tell others what you supposed to do? I don't want to influence them. I want free their nature up and let them influence themselves. I want to change a group of people in a unique way. I want to change their living conditions and economic conditions. I want to let them know that there are many ways to live in life. People can be different. Relationships can be diverse, life can be diverse. You don't need to be rich to have a wonderful life."

I looked at him and said, "I believe that the Human Library has done this, but I want to do more than just that"

"I believe so," he smiled.


When I first returned to Beijing from the UK, I was eating with a sister. She was an amazing girl. I don’t want to read so many public numbers, but I will always read what she wrote. In the face of a girl I have never known, we talked a lot. When I finally asked why I was working in this company, she looked at what I said and looked at it. I always remembered "because that is what I always believed." .


I hope that my eyes are still sharp and my body is still strong although I am getting old. I hope that I am still passionate about the world and the new things. I will still believe the thing I have done is because "This is something that I always believe in."

I hope that you and I are all the same.


10/19/2016 (Venice, Italy)

I was on the slow train from Trieste to Bolzano, with the beautiful Adriatic sea view went to spectaculars Dolomiti mountains area. All day without wifi but stunning weather with slow pace, It was perfect time to think and introspect myself: places I have been, people I have met, stuff I have bought, feeling I have had on this trip. When I was looking back about all those things and trying to put each pieces of moment together, I found out eventually about the answers of the questions which I have asked myself before: why we travel. 
 
I think traveling let me discover what I like, what I dislike, what I am looking for. And all those questions lead to the answers of another questions: What kinds of person I am, what I am going to do and who I am going to be. This is the lifetime queries and traveling is not the only one to help to find out but at least the important one to inspire giving the answers.
 
When I was on the way back to China, I was looking at the photos which have been taken on the trip and all of them recalls the memories I have had in the past days. The people I met actually just in front of me when I close my eyes! I can even remember the faces, the facial expression they had, the feeling I had and felt, and suddenly I realised that the most important part of the traveling is human interaction: the people I met, the talk I had, the music we listened together, the food they cook for me or I cook for them..It is easy to forget some stunning view when time passes, but the things I cannot forget are the stories I had, people who made stories with me, and the feeling I had at that moment. With human interaction, I can see the beautiful balance between human and nature. And thanks for the balance to make a such beautiful world. 
 
Each pieces of those memories became me. I am unique because of those stories, experience and people. Traveling is the important way to have those memories and life it is! Traveling and living just a differen
t way to have a life. And that is why I found out that this trip is something different from my past trip: When I was ready to leave, I haven’t felt sad or any other feeling that I didn’t want to finish the trip. It was just a normal way back and I was feeling that this trip just part of my life and it was into my life. Life goes on and traveling has already became part of it. 
 
I guess that is why I travel.


11/04/2016 (Shanghai, China)


In the past two days, I had a guest from South Korea on Couchsurfing, a website that people are looking for free accommodation. Since I often receive a lot of requests for free accommodation, I have already ignored the use of Airbnb on the Couchsurfing. But the boy's request came at the right time: I just downloaded the email app that was bound to the sofa guest website, and just his request jumped out in the form of an email. I think this is a fate and I have carefully reviewed his information.

A young man with a dream, likes to dance, and then wants to start working and want to learn the dances of various countries. His information said that he would like to receive his favorite music from the sofa owner, and then he would jump for the sofa master. I can't say what music I like, I chose a Girl from Ipanema. He usually learns to dance in the modern dance of puppet dance, so there is more or less puppet dance modern dance composition for my dance. I always feel that it is unnatural, and he is not expected to open it. After the song is over, I can't stand it. I said, "I will take you with you."

I put all kinds of jazz, Cuban Latin jazz, American jazz, jazz blues, I only learned a little salsa and cha cha, but I like to dance with music. When the two jumped to the end, they became more and more natural and relaxed a lot. I also felt the feeling that I had never expected to jump in salsa and cha cha before.

He wrote to me on the coucher's website that he liked my "be flow", so I sent some thoughts to him when he left today. In fact, the essence of flow is not just the surface of the water and the surging, but the real focus on a certain thing or a certain process. In the process of this flow, you have forgotten the time and the surrounding, as if the whole world has nothing to do with you, what you care about is what you are doing right now. This time you are truly free.

"Just forget the dances and skills you have learned before. Feel the music, follow the music, and feel the people and the surrounding, then dance naturally. The more relaxed you are, the more you will enjoy it. If you want to experience something differently, the way to do is to forget things you have learned and learn everything from the beginning. Life is actually the process of continuous breaking and rebirth."

I finished the last paragraph and estimated that his plane had already taken off.

I have been thinking about leaving my job recently, and I know that I will leave sooner or later. Without the enthusiasm and enthusiasm of the past, I am a bit embarrassed, but there are also some snacks. Before leaving work on Friday, my colleague said that I wanted something to do. I said, "Weekend is busy, no," and I will take it off. In fact, it is a good colleague with a good relationship. It is also a small elder who is bigger than me. I said "not reliable" to me.

I have been trying a lot of things, except for one job, I am still doing a few things together. I also continue to receive guests from all over the country at home. I communicate with them and take them to Shanghai to eat with them. Many of us have become good friends and there are quite a few deep exchanges. It may also be because of love and play, and doing a lot of things, always feel that the mainstream society's view on this is "not reliable, unstable." Although I have a rational and clear idea, I will still be disturbed by such a sound. But they can't see it. The reason why I try to keep trying is not because I don't have a direction, but because I have to try to find something that is worthy of my deepening. I don't want to put my life in a dimension. I hope to keep going out, try, and finally find the thing that I believe, and then go down more seriously than others. Because this is what I exchanged through constant travel, life, and thinking.

I have read an article before, saying that the most dangerous part of the crisis in life is not a bottleneck, but even the bottle is not found. I was very fortunate to have found my mission when I was young. Because the greatest fortune in a person's life is that he found his life mission when he was young and strong.

To enter the flow, you need to constantly explore and try. Diversity and experimentation do not mean instability and unreliability. On the contrary, it is the responsibility for life that should be looking for something that you really love.

This year is about to come to an end, and I have learned too much. When I am looking for a job, I am also excited to plan a visit at the end of the year. This may open another window in my life. .

Thanks to life, let me continue to practice, in the right of a pair of time, real flow. At that time I believe that true freedom will come.


01/21/2017 (Hong Kong)

This time in Hong Kong, I live in Saigon. Duras describes her love story in her autobiographical novel "The Lover", which happened in Saigon, Saigon, Vietnam.

I never expected that Hong Kong has such a beautiful place, surrounded by mountains and seas, and the harbor is full of fishing boats of different sizes and colors. I live opposite Haicun, and the entrance to the village is filled with all kinds of statues of gods. In the center of Saigon, there is a Mazu Temple. Every time the fishermen go out to sea, they have to sacrifice their blessings to return to the sea safely. Some fishing boats will also hang the Tianhou flag. I am an islander. Although I have never dealt with a fisherman, I can understand this belief. It is a pity that every day in Saigon, I am drunk and dreamed of death. I have never seen a fisherman go fishing in the sea.

The busier center in Saigon is the pier, which is also a place for tourists to love. On the edge of the pier is a row of seafood restaurants, one of which is recommended by Michelin, and all kinds of fresh and dazzling. Going to the opposite Haicun is some restaurants and markets. There are two cheap tea rooms. I often sit and read tea in their outdoor areas. For less than HK$40, a meal or soup noodle soup, plus a cup of coffee or tea, can be eaten very well. It is not like the high turnover rate in the Yau Tsim Mong area. No one has been there for a long time.

Every time I go back to my home, I always go uphill through the layers of fishermen. This is my favorite way to walk. Especially at night, there are only a few dim lights, romantic and quiet, and Saigon is the place I want to stay.

I met him at the Nong Khai Railway Station three and a half years ago, and then spent a romantic 15 days together. Then we rarely contacted, even if I came to Hong Kong this time, we did not plan to meet. I went back for a walk that night at midnight and sent him the moonlight Saigon. After a phone call, he suddenly decided to come over.

"It cost 300HKD to take a taxi to your place. I would rather we go out just now than have a dinner in Central."

I was amazed,

"OK," said it without thinking.

At 1 o'clock in the morning, I took a shower, drank some wine, and listened to music. After 45 minutes, he said that he had arrived. I looked at the time, 2 am.

I took enough blankets and scarves and put on the flip-flops and ran out. Open the door of the community and see a thin figure coming out from the dim light to smile at me. His hair has grown to the neck and is much thinner than memory. I ran over and hugged him tightly. It didn't feel like it was separated for nearly four years, but only a few months. Waiting is not like waiting for a lover from the past, but like a boyfriend who came to visit me.

We wandered around the Saigon Pier in a blanket and sat down to talk. I ran to the park to play with children's slides. Sitting in front of the slide, he held me and talked about what he had done in the past three years. I stood barefoot in the chair and danced. I jumped and he caught me. We ran to the beach, and he hugged me on the rock and listened to the waves and talked and kissed. I have always liked the sound of the collision between the sea and the rock, but I did not expect it to be presented in such a romantic way.

"I read a book some time ago, called ‘The Moon and Six Pence’, I said. "It’s an Englishman who used to be a stockbroker. He has a wife and two children. They live in a normal middle class life. When he was 40, he abandoned everything and took 100 pounds to Paris to live in poverty. Then he went to Tahiti Island located in the South Pacific, where he painted the most beautiful paintings with the blind eyes that caused by leprosy."

"He lived purely and proudly at that time. You know, when a talented person stays as free as he wants, there will always be someone to help him." I lay on the rock and looked at him, so close, It feels like we were crammed into a small train berth in a foreign country. When I woke up from my sleep, he looked at me in front of me.

"It won't be too late to start being yourself." I said.

Later, I took him around the center of Saigon, took him from the road into countless winding roads, and took the road back from the path. We danced on this street where no one was, borrowing inspiration from love and taking photos of buses, taxis, graffiti walls, trees, streets, etc. At 5 o'clock in the morning, fishermen began to go out to sea, we went to sleep at the beach. Go, wake up again at sunrise and the whistle of the fishing boat. In the morning, the Saigon Pier is an old man. There is morning tea in the morning market. We found a seafood restaurant to eat Cantonese dim sum. His deep Cantonese is really sexy.


Every time I come to Hong Kong, I will always linger in the streets at night. Hong Kong is a city that is more sexy and sexy for me, and this night is like a dream to me. I took him to the entire Saigon, my favorite opposite Haicun, and the exquisitely enchanting tree under the yellow light at the entrance to the village. At 6:30 in the morning, the street has been pedestrians. We are wrapped in blankets and clothes are not like two madmen. The face is full of drunkenness and walks down the street, completely ignoring the eyes of pedestrians.

I have a little excitement and pride. It is like a plot in Hong Kong movies. I actually have it.

How many fate points can I exchange for such a profound kiss, I don't know, but I know that Saigon night, which is 7:00 in the morning, I don't want to wake up.


The reason why a lover is a lover, not a man/girlfriend or a lover, is nothing more than a deep feeling and a feeling of love. The word "love" is always unspeakable, but is on the edge. After all, my lover left me back to his original life and the embrace of others, but this inspiration has been planted in my heart and has since been in my heart.


07/14/2017 (San Francisco, the United State)

In the early morning at 4, I saw him driving from darkness. There was a car slowly approaching and then parked outside. I then went out with friends. When I met again, his face was much more vicissitude than the impression. The white top, the jeans had two irregular holes in the knees and a pair of slippers on the feet. He came to me and gently called me "Dream", and then hugged me.

"It's fun to have your photo album in the box." He told me when he moved the suitcase from his friend's car to his car.

"I bought it at a second-hand bookstore. It is about the people and landscape in Vietnam. Also, I paid $50 for this poetry. I think you will like it." I said.

"50 dollars?" He was surprised. I handed him the collection of poems. "Yeah, It was published in 1895. Look, I think someone bought it in 1900, and gave someone as a gift. There are some words on the title page." He touched the green book cover, in dim Under the light, the name of the poem "The singing shepherd" is read, and the inside is a yellow and elegant paper. I looked at him looking down and suddenly felt a little moved.

"Alright, let’s go," I said one.

As we drove into San Francisco, the fog gradually became thicker and we could not see the scenery and houses on both sides. When he opened the sunroof of the car, I also took off my seat belt and drilled it out. In the early morning, San Francisco was chilly. I just came from the east and wore a short sleeve. I could barely see anything in front of me. The wind quickly patted my face. He gradually speeded up and passed through the tunnel, and I slowly relaxed and leaned back. Squinting, I feel the memory mixed with the flashing yellow light in the tunnel constantly moving in front of my eyes. what is it then?

"Did you do that before?"

"I like it a lot, but I often on the drive seat, so actually I only tried a few times."

I don't know how long I have been driving, and I don't know where the destination is until he tells me that the right side is the sea. The fog in the morning is still very thick. Only a small number of people can fish at the beach and can't see the color of the sea. Surrounded by a barren, gray sand, small cactus-like vegetation, there may be some lichens, nothing to life. We packed some food in the restaurant, and put the three layers of the clothes in the outer layer, and found a place that was not too cold to sit down. After a tent, the tramp lying outside the tent was awakened by our footsteps. He took out one and sent it to them.

"Have you ever talked to the jungle, the ocean, the universe?" I sat down and continued our conversation in the car.

"Yes, of course, the feeling is too wonderful to be described in words. Do you believe that people have a third eye. When you are still a child, your third eye were still opened. Therefore, kids are more creative and curious about the world. However, as you grow older, you will gradually lose this power."

"It is actually that you lost the ability to discover beauty and feel the spirituality."

"There is a pineal gland in the human brain that secretes DMT. In fact, when people dream, they also secrete a large amount of DMT. DMT could connect you to an immaterial world, perhaps taking you to another space of the universe."

"The main substance of Ayahuasca is DMT, which is a jungle herb that opens up your consciousness that let you see the past and present."

"Only the absolute peace of mind can wake up the sleeping self and feel the connection between the individual and the universe. If you are lucky enough, you may feel the other frequency. Ayahuasca is just the key to open the door, but the real key is in your heart. "

He looked at me and asked, "Have you ever tried to feel the universe?"

"I did. It was the time when I was lying down on the grass, felling the sunshine went through the leaves and shadowing on my face, or looking at the grass gently moving in the wind. It was the time when I was walking barefooted in the village and passing through the cattle, sheep and farmland, and standing on the soil and feeling how fresh the soil is. The moment is forever, it is the time when I feel I was a minutiae in the universe yet a strong power within myself. The power set me free and makes me connect the universe and nature."

"It seems like it takes forever but it only takes a short amount of time, and everything seems paused."

"It is like traveling in timed and space. There was a moment when I felt a strong connection that connected my past, present and future. It seems that I connected these three spaces together."

"When is it?"

"The first time I saw you."

Time, the reason why I feel too slow, is nothing more than sensory amplification, or received a lot more information than usual. As I gradually explore myself and the world, I want to know more about time and more about the universe. Although human beings are small, they can be spiritually connected with nature and the universe. It is a magical thing to find the value and strength of everyone.

"What would you like to do next?" he asked me.

"How about we go to find the magic?"

We drove in San Francisco without a purpose to hang out, drank coffee in his favorite coffee shop, and talked about the philosophy of their favorite movies and movies. Without a time to read poetry, he began a journey of high and low roller coasters. I jumped out of the car and jumped into the front of a sightseeing bus. He followed slowly behind, until the front was no longer flat. Most of San Francisco is exactly the same tall building. It is totally different from Boston. The building has no special features, and I am very tired.

We quickly got out of the city and he finally found the magic and transmitted it to me. On the way to the beach, we opened all the windows in the car and drove the music to the maximum, still blowing by the wind. The music is getting clearer and clearer than the best headphones, we are intoxicated, as if everything around us is no longer relevant to us. One foot in the end, the taste of the sea, the fragrance of the earth, I turned to look at him, in his eyes, I saw the light, or, the infinite.

"I can't keep myself happy all the time." After a long silence, I finally spoke.

"You have burden. The fear is the reason. What makes you happy?"

"Love makes me happy"

"what is love"

"I do not know"

"Do you love yourself?"

"I do"

"Why do you say that you love yourself?"

"Because I care about my body, my heart. And I am good to myself."

"If you love yourself, why do not let yourself to be happy"

"It is difficult. I don’t really know how to make myself happy."

"That's because you don't know yourself."

"It is a lifelong exploration"

"You don't know about yourself, so you don't know how to be happy. But happiness is part of love."

"I felt happy when I was sitting in a second-hand bookstore and looking for a collection of poems. It is also the moment when I feel beauty touches my heart.""

"So why don't you keep this happiness, to pursue and explore beauty?"

"How can I make myself feel happy?"

"There are too many things you can’t let go that make you unable to pursue it. You are scared because you are afraid of losing. Those are the weight on you that you need to let go."

As we explored these topics, he drove around in the neighborhood near the airport. It’s like this piece of dialogue that never ends in a loop, without jumping out, the problem can never be solved. I know the root of the problem and the solution, but I still have no courage.

"Listen Dream, do whatever you want to do and feel whatever you want to fell. Don’t let your brain control your life. You will find out the answer you are looking for if you feel your heart"

"But what if I try eventually gain nothing if I try so many things?"

"Do you believe in destiny?"

"Yes I do. "

"The destiny will lead you to become the one you alway want to be."

After 10 hours, our relationship finally came to an end. He sent me to the San Francisco airport, and the California sunshine finally showed its original appearance in the afternoon. The early morning bleak was completely gone, and the temperature gradually warmed up. We gently embrace each other, that is the body and taste that I am familiar with, and I don't want to let go but have to leave. It is the person I have loved, the key to open my sleep, the other one in the world, the one in my heart that I have no courage to become.

When the plane was about to take off, I finally dialed his phone.

"Goodbye," I whimpered, and gently evoked his name. "I will always miss you."

"I will miss you too".

The moment the plane rushed to the sky, I had burst into tears.


09/17/2017  (Shanghai, China)

Last night in Shanghai, I had a little drink with my two friends at the McKinnon Hotel. Yes, upstairs is the venue for the immersive drama Sleep no more. The two friends are young and promising, occupying important positions in their respective companies, drinking the same whisky brewing wine Sleep no more. One is really not good for long-term sleep, the other is very passionate about this play. The two have a large part of the time to discuss the aftertaste that the play has brought to them, as well as to discuss other playable dramas. As the only one who has not seen this drama, I drink the wine that is not called Sleep no more called Shirley Temple, and listens quietly beside it.

Some people say that electric video is a dream. Watching a movie is like experiencing other people's stories and dreams. Therefore, directors and screenwriters are dreamers. The drama is also true for most people, and I was impressed by one of the words that one of my friends said.

"My life is not gonna change, so I really want to enter other people’s world and see what is happening there." I looked at his tired face and was a little surprised.

"Quit your job then go to Boston" I remember when I expressed my love for Boston to Steven and how I felt tired of my work, he said something that impressed me.

"But what can I do if I quit my job in Boston? Go to school? Go to work? Go traveling? What can I do?"

"You think too much. Listen, either jump or not."

I certainly know what he means. Jump is to abandon the past life and your label in the eyes of others, naked to chase the life you want, without any back road. Because there is no real balance between likes and dislikes.

There are some friends around, and there are jobs that others seem to be stable and high-paying. If you are really interested and passionate, you can also see the light in your eyes. However, most people are not like this. Therefore, they can only rely on 1-2 trips a year to travel abroad, or enter the story and world of others through drama.

My choice is, I don't want to walk into other people's worlds and stories, I want to make my own world.

I resigned after coming back from the United States, but I did not go to Boston. I am going to chase my dreams. In my dad's words, there is no way to go back to Huashan, and you will go to the end.


01/30/2018 (Tokyo, Japan)

My Japanese friend Yu lives in the very quiet Tokugawa-machi behind the bustling downtown area. I can't find the way back when the alleys are going around. There is a rich park in Tokugawa-cho, and there are some quiet izakayas, small restaurants and hair salons hidden in various alleys. Of course, there are two soups near the residence, which is a public bathhouse. On almost every night in Tokyo, my friends took me to bathe. He said that this is a very traditional culture in Japan.

The soup we went to was less than 5 minutes walk from the residence. Called Jingtian Tang. Men and women are separated. Put the shoes in the locker before entering the door, pay the money at the front desk after entering the door, 430 yen a person, if you want to rent a towel and add 10 yen. So, I was so excited that I entered the women's bath and started a fun soup trip.

Old Japanese women are basically bathed in public baths. After I entered the door, I first observed the order of everyone. Wash the head first, then into the soup, there is a small bench in the bathroom, shampoo and bath water. The murals on the walls are particularly interesting. The faces of the soup pond are two paintings of the community: Fujiu Park and a large shrine nearby. The murals directly above the Tangchi are very similar to the frog waiters in <Thousands of Spirits>. There are several kinds of soups, there are medicated baths to treat various neuralgia. There is water and wind, it is cold water. The biggest pool is a back and foot massage bath. After sitting inside, there will be a lot of hot water for your back and foot massage. I am embarrassed to observe it in situ, so I am going to walk around to see how everyone washes how to soak. After reading it for a long time, I didn't know how to put the hair up and put the towel on my head. I had to hold my hair all the time. There is a Japanese aunt who is so kind to tell me that I can use the rubber band of the cabinet key and show me how to get the soup right. I tried every pool, and when I was doing the foot and back bath, the hot water rushed like me. I would be dizzy when I stayed in the indoor bath for too long. I left for about 5 minutes.

Out of the women's bath, I saw Yu was already doing stretching and waiting for me. I can say that I can speak in Japanese and English in the men's bathroom. I have carefully shared my feelings, and said that this is similar to the bubble scene in the animations such as <Crayon Xiaoxin> <Thousands of Chihiro> that I saw when I was a child. In addition, the protagonist’s husband and wife went to the public bath in the snow. He is also very happy that I enjoy it. I learned how he stretched and watched the news on the front TV. The opposite Japanese old man is actually watching <Tao Yuanming>, which is interesting and interesting.

When I went to this well soup the next night, the male and female baths changed rooms. In another bath there is an open air and sauna. Yu said to me,
"Remember to talk to those ladies! "

Unfortunately, I have already gotten through the road, and I haven't talked. After I finished the soup, I walked back barefoot. Yu joked that I was a wandering girl, but it was him who slept for two weeks in Nara, Kyoto 10 years ago.

On the third night, Jingtian Soup was closed, and we went to another soup a little further away. My friend and the aunt at the front desk are discussing the beauty of the bloody moon. I am watching the bloody moon in the TV set with the aunts in the soup of the women's bath. There is a bath in this bath, and I lay down like a king. I always like to watch Japanese news for 10 minutes before I take a bath. I don’t understand anything. I have basic subtitles. In this soup room, an 88-year-old Japanese lady apparently took a long time and gasped out. When I asked her if she needed help, the younger aunt said,

"She's fine! She is 88 years old!"
"Wow! so amazing!"
"Goodbye, good night!" She said.

When I went out of the bathroom, I saw Yu was waiting for me.

For me, this is a very rare cultural experience. I especially enjoyed the soup, and the moonlight slowly walked back in the quiet alley. Yu said that after every busy work, it is very comfortable to go to the bathhouse. I also enjoy it, of course, not just taking a bath.

03/18/2018 (Haikou, China)


Community is the soul of a city.

Binhai New Village is 1.5 km away from my home. If it wasn’t for the friend who took me a few days ago, I still stayed in the memory of my grandfather’s home and the place where I had food stalls. I went to Binhai New Village from my home, walked through the coconut sea avenue of Haikou City, passed through the bottom of the overpass, and after a large construction site, I saw the signboard of "Binhai New Village Community". The entrance is a kindergarten with a blue base and an image of "angry bird". Next to it is a stage, the most lively place in the entire community. On the side of the stage, the children screamed and ran around; the young parents took the young children out for a walk, ran for a while and the children "wow" to vomit a place; the "old man's house" across the stage was full. The middle-aged and elderly people playing mahjong; the incense of the "Tianhougong" temple next to it is still very strong, and there is always an incredible fragrance to come and go.

In such a community, there will always be a park with a variety of fitness equipment. There will always be quiet alleys and residents of the community. There will also be a lively neighborhood, a haircut shampoo, a meal, a snack, and a hardware-selling fruit filled with this piece of fun. Occasionally there will be a small red light shop behind the hidden door, faintly sitting on the girl with a sly expression. The leaves fell to the ground and looked a bit like a secluded petty bourgeoisie in the heart of Shanghai under the streetlights. But I still do as always, like the alleys between the block and the stage.

The alleys are very quiet. One by one is distributed in Binhai New Village. It is a lively neighborhood just a few tens of meters away. The Binhai New Village is just a few hundred meters away from the downtown area, but the excitement does not disturb the quietness of the alley. There are a variety of plants on both sides, and I have counted 30 kinds. The residential building is about 3 stories high, and sometimes you can hear the sound of mahjong and water flowing from inside. The walls are painted with murals created in conjunction with the local environment. The weather in Haikou in March was very comfortable. When I was walking in the alley, I gradually remembered other small alleys that made me comfortable. Think about it, this is the first time I found such a quiet and clean alley in Haikou, and I have a leisurely walk in a comfortable night. During this one-hour walk, I recalled a lot of communities in different countries and thought about why I would like such a community.

Tokugawa-cho in Tokyo is such a community. Her layout has many similarities with Binhai New Village. Although the alleys in Tokugawa-machi are more complex and quiet, the restaurants, shops, clothing stores and hotels in the community are more refined. There is a rich park in Tokugawa-machi, as well as fitness equipment and a large shrine. It is 600 meters from Tokugawa-cho, the most prosperous neighborhood of Shinjuku, but it is not affected by the liveliness of Shinjuku. The complicated alleys made me always unable to find a way back. If the stage of Binhai New Village maintains the feelings of the people in the community, Fujiu Town is undoubtedly the two public bathhouses. My Japanese friend Y was alone in the deep alley of Tokugawa-machi. I used to take me to the public bathhouse for a few days. The city has opened up the distance and feelings between people. The bathhouses in the community keep people together, and even this foreigner can feel this warm connection. I finally know why he likes to go to the public bathhouse.

"Remember this picture"

When we went to the Fujiu-cho Shrine together, he compared the index finger and thumb of both hands into a frame, and framed a picture in front of my eyes.

 "And look carefully when you are in the bathroom" He turned to smile at me.

I sat in the bed and faced the painting on the wall of the bathhouse. The picture on the left is the shrine under his frame, and the picture on the right is Fujiu Park.

Most of the bathhouses are middle-aged and elderly, and the uncles of the treasurer are relatively slow to respond when they check out and take the brand. There is a TV broadcast in the public hall or in the bathhouse. I always watch a few minutes with the aunts before I go to the bath, and then go to the public hall for a few minutes after bathing. In the center of Fujiu-cho, there is a large construction site, and according to friends, a nursing home is being built. Not far away, Shinjuku’s bright billboards are shining.

London is a 10-minute walk from G subway station and there is also a community. I can't remember the name, because it always stays in the weekend of May. The film has a conspicuous church, and the overall atmosphere of the community is warm and romantic and bright yellow. We often go for a walk in this community. Sometimes we can see a rose in a corner, and sometimes we can see some small animals that suddenly come out from a corner. Most of the shops are closed, but there is a small shop opened by Indians that still lights up late at night. The shop is small, but at midnight it is crowded with young people who are returning from nightclubs or hungry. The quiet and exquisite community has become alive and well because of this rustic little shop. The weather in London in May is just like the mouth of the sea in March. It is cool and comfortable, and my heart has also opened a flower.



You can always meet in the community, whether it is a ancestral temple, a stupa, a shrine or a church; meet life, whether it is a stage, a bathhouse, or a small 24-hour shop. The early human society of collecting is to maintain the community, emotions and clan through connections. After the influence of agriculture, industry, commerce, information revolution and urbanization, the ties were gradually broken up. But whether you are an outsider or an insider in the community, you can still feel this strong or weak connection. The evolution of the millennium does not eliminate human attachment to the connection. After all, Homo sapiens will discover that the most real things happen in these communities after developing industrial, commercial, information, and technological civilization through super imagination and construction.

"I don't belong here. There is no connection between people in Shinjuku. I will be moving to Fukuoka by the end of the year" Y told me. We had breakfast in the cafe, which was the last conversation before the difference.

I silently sipped coffee and didn't answer, looked up at the clock, 9:50. He went to work 15 minutes later than usual.

A few days ago in Binhai New Village, my friend took me to a restaurant called "Pig Foot Shop" to eat. In the rudimentary restaurant, the diners are varied. There are uncles and uncles, as well as a man who looks at the Kindle. A delicate man in a suit should be a frequent visitor to the store, and the bosses started to play with his jokes:

"Hey, that kid, he is your son right? Is his mom the woman I saw last time?"

"Yes he is, but he doesn't have a mon." He smirked and deliberately teased back.

"You must be joking" The bosses are not reconciled.

"That is true, he doesn’t have a mom" Laughing and getting up, I am ready to leave the store.

"How can he came to this world without a mom." I heard one of the bosses carefully cautious.

I am happy in my heart, this scene is wonderful, this is the community. It is these inadvertent dialogues and exchanges that embellish the ordinary and comfort the exhaustion.

04/01/2018 (Haikou, China)

In front of the window of my room, I can look up at the moon when I look up.

I like nights with moonlight, especially in quiet countryside, where there is no light pollution. The first time I bathed in the Moon River, it was Mae Salong on the high mountains of northern Thailand. Before the moonlight filled the bed in the middle of the night, it was the first time I realized the gentleness and comfort of the moonlight. I also understand why the ancients wrote poetry and love to write moonlight. Most of our interpretation of the month is homesickness or loneliness, but in my opinion, the moon itself has the power to caress, relax and heal. Su Shi’s prose is one of my most impressed short words. He had to undress and sleep, but because of the moonlight, he was interested in the night. I came to Chengtian Temple to find a friend Zhang Huaimin, and they walked together in the courtyard. The moonlight in the courtyard is as empty as the water, which seems to be interlaced with algae, but it is the reflection of bamboo and cypress in the courtyard. The words are very vivid. And now people living in the city still have the luck to feel the power of moonlight? Needless to say, light pollution is the ability to see the moon, and most people do not appreciate the elegance.

Month, such a high frequency has to be written in the poetry of the ancients, it is really romantic.

Most of the days of camping in the Scottish Highlands are rainy and windy, but one night there is a bright moon. The highlands are full of mountains, rivers and lakes, and the sound of water can be heard in the tent. In the evening, holding clothes on the way to the camp toilet, a round of bright moon hangs on the grass, I don't need to wear a headlight.

When I arrived in Tokyo on the first night, Y took me to a vegetable bar in Shinjuku. On the way back to Tokugawa, even though he was as fast as most urbanites, he suddenly shot my shoulder and pointed back:

"Look at the moon!"

Like the Christmas Eve in Seville, crowded people went to the square to watch the large 3D projection animation Agua de sueno, the mother pointed to the child on the shoulder and said "Mira!".

I was instantly attracted by the moonlight in Tokyo. The days I was in were at the full moon, and the moon was round and brighter every day. One night, the moonlight sprinkled through the window into the house, and we decided to open the curtains and bathe in the moonlight to sleep in the living room. When lying down, the eyes are facing the moon at a height.

"Why do you like the moon?" I asked

"I lived in the countryside when I was in Bolivia and there was a small rooftop. There was one night when the moonlight drifted in through the window so I went out.  That was the first time I found out the moonlight could be so bright. I was lying on the rooftop and I felt I was flowing and floating in the boundless ocean. It was so relaxed, gentle and comfortable, and nothing else in the rest matter."

"Have you ever feel the moonlight in your bedroom?"

"No, this is my first time to feel it. Thanks to you."

After visiting the museum in Ueno in Tokyo, Y took me to a nearby cafe. The cherry trees next to the cafe are hung with pink lights to create a splendid winter cherry blossom. Next to the seat we were sitting on, there were two paintings hanging. One of them is the moon, taken through the branches of the winter.

"I was visiting an exhibition of Natsume Soseki’s work last time I was here in this coffee shop." He says.

"What is it about?"

"Just his work, when and where he created it. He is my favorite writer."

I didn't understand the name of this person until he wrote it down.

"I lived in a wooden house when I was traveling in Dolomites, Italy. It was raining during the day, but was getting drier and clearer at night. The village we live in is surrounded by mountains, and there are only a few people we see in the whole day. It is especially chilling at night. One night I was out for a little walk, and there was no light. I only saw the moon was up in the sky and light up the snow on the mountain.  I heard the sound of stream and it was peaceful and beautiful. I didn’t do anything, just feel it" I slowly shared my experience with him.

"Just feel it", he repeated my sentence. Looking at my eyes, I smiled a little.

"So speaking about Natsume Soseki, he once asked his students how to say ‘I love you’ in Japanese. so how to say it in Japanese?" I asked him.

"Love してる" He said very quietly, for fear of being heard by the people next to him.

"However, Natsume Soseki said, Japanese don’t express their love in such a straightforward way, they would only need to say 'tonight, the moon is beautiful.’" Most people who know Natsume Soseki but have not read his work know This bridge segment. However, Y, who thinks it is Natsume, has never heard of this paragraph. I think he will always remember this paragraph.

Most of the people in the city are rushing, and rarely look up at the moon. January 31 is the 152-year super moon + blood month. At about 6:30 pm, the size and brightness of the moon reached an unprecedented level. But the urban people who are off work are still rarely noticed. When waiting for the traffic lights, only one woman looks in the direction of the upper right. Every time I look up from my room and see the moon, I still remember a few hours in the deep alleys of Tokyo.

Missing, probably is such a taste.


08/15/2018 (Chiangmai, Thailand)

"I just bought a ticket to Chiang Mai and will be setting off the day after tomorrow. This time will be a nine-day trip" I just received his message while lying down on the bed.
"Going again? Practice your saxophone?" I replied.
"Yeah"
"Then I will go with you." I subconsciously replied.
"Sure"

I quickly checked the ticket and the visa policy. I am familiar with Thailand as it is where I met him. However, it is the first time for me to go in a spontaneous way. I didn’t buy the ticket immediately though I haven’t seen him for a long time and will be leaving for the US in three weeks, considering my family’s opposition to this spontaneous trip. I gave myself two more days to think it thoroughly. I was trying to think about the purpose of going as there is no result out of our relationship. However, knowing me, there are things that require no results. I finally decided to buy a ticket 2 days before departure. I know that I will be very much regret it if I don't go. I told him the time to arrival after I bought the ticket. Everything still sounds amazing to me as I didn’t know I will be going to Thailand just two days ago. It happened just so quick.

My parent opposed my plan until I told them -

"I am going to meet someone I loved. I know that if I don't see him at this time, I might not have chance to see him in the future."

My mom just changed her thought, "Then go". She said .

My dad woke up at 5 o'clock in the morning and drove me to the airport. Before I set off, I saw a very clear horizon, and the sunrise has just begun.

I was 20 when we met in 5 years ago, the time when I explored the world in a genuinely curiosity. Encountering him and starting a joyful 20-day motorcycle journey became a valuable and unforgettable memory in my life. I sometimes write to him after we separated but we rarely talked to each other in the past five years. In the past five years, we rarely contacted to each other. However, at this time we met, we still had endless things to talk and slept as less as possible to enjoy our precious yet limited time together. We motorcycled the city as well as the mountain, had a coffee and desert to enjoy a lazy afternoon and danced on the street in the midnight. He still treated me as a treasure on his palm and took care of me a lot.

During these days, most of time we didn’t do some sightseeing. We sat on the sofa in the tranquil lounge and talked for hours, stayed in an outdoor cafe and watched the river flowing. Time seems paused and the only thing we have was the moment. We danced together in the room, while he was twisting the Rumba rhythm and I was leading him some basic steps of salsa and bachata. We went to local bar at the midnight to enjoy the live music, rode a motorcycle through the ancient city. We parked beside the river and played drums on the street under the full mon. We climbed up to the peak of the mountain to peep while monk was taking a bath. We were singing and laughing all the way through the chilly greenery jungle.

We often talked about what had happened in the past 5 years. The risk, confusion, the pessimism and optimism about the future. Unlike five years ago, I finally learned to listen and understand. I no longer wish to use my own values ​​to encourage him to live a different life. Instead, I began to understand everything he has experienced and chosen. We are not at the same age and growing up in different systems and environments, and even occasionally there are some obstacles in language communication, but we still forget the time. Just as I just met him 5 years ago, we talked from night to dawn and went to sleep.

Is there any way to remember a person? He doesn't have a social network, and Facebook doesn't use it. I have no way of knowing his life and work. But I counted the 20-day memory in my heart, because he started to learn Latin dance, fell in love with jazz, and yearned for the enthusiasm and sunshine of South America. I have been optimistic about Wang Jiawei’s movie that made me sleepy. I thought that I understood Wang Jiawei and understood him. Like to ride a motorcycle, eager to copy the memories he created together, but found that his experience at that time can only be unique. After the first time, I continued to write to him for a year and a half, even if there was no response. What can make me feel that I am being remembered? He remembers too many things that happened to me in these five years, and some even I have forgotten. He has been reading the tweets I sent. He knew that I liked flowers and bought me fresh and beautiful flowers before and after I arrived. He remembers what happened to me in the past five years, what mood I am in, what dress is in the photo. I thought he was gone, but he was always there.

"See, I have been always standing outside of the window." I looked at his face and burst into tears.

Parting is always accompanied by pain and tears. What is more painful is that people who are in love cannot be together. When I was young, I felt that everything was possible, but the reality was always not satisfactory. After the return, the rain in Haikou has been going down, just as my heart has been crying. I didn't fall into this sad mood and affected my normal life. After all, I am no longer a ignorant girl. But I don't want to go too fast, as nothing has happened. I really like the phrase "Right now, there's sorrow, pain. Don't kill it and with it the joy you've felt." Oliver's father finally said to his son who lost his love in the movie "Call me by your name". I want to feel all the emotions, whether it is happy, sweet, gentle, sad or unable to be together. The pain, take care of my heart, let her grow flowers.


09/28/2018  (New York)

I think I fell in love with the L train Union Square subway station platform after midnight.

Today is the third time to return to Brooklyn by car at midnight. The third time I heard live music playing on the platform. Today is the Autumn Leaves played by the saxophone. The player is a middle-aged black hair. I saw young people behind him holding paper bags and dancing with music. I saw the gentleness in the eyes of the young girl who was listening to music in a red dress. I saw that the artist forgot to blow, his music soothed me continuously. The fatigue of studying and doing the project for several days warmed up my heart that I just lost data. The Autumn leaves blown out by the saxophone reminded me of the person in my heart. The subway soon came. I gave him only $2 in cash, and the listeners around him gave him money. I have saved in New York, but I never regret the money to make me laugh, let me cry, soothe my heart, and evoke the artists I remember. They are a gentle and romantic presence in the city.

The Asian boys communicated with each other while they were listening to music. I told him that this song is called "Autumn Leaves"

"The fall of New York is coming. One leaf knows the autumn, and one song knows the autumn."

This is my first hope on the midnight platform. The car is slower, slower, and slower.


01/14/2019  (New York)

I lived in my classmates these days. I went to the early morning when I returned last night. I found that my classmates’ roommates were subletted to a boy. Maybe on Saturday night, the boy brought three boys to the room, and I greeted and went back to the room to rest.

I worked hard for 12 hours yesterday, and I was very tired physically and mentally. When I was ready to sleep, I heard someone in the living room start talking, and there was an inflated sound. I couldn’t sleep, and decided to go out and ask them to make a small noise. Once in the living room, there was a marijuana smell. A squinting boy just came out of the bathroom and looked like he had just finished smoking. The two boys slept on the mattress and brought their sleeping bags to their knees. A young boy with explosive hair inflated his air mattress and saw a big smile when he saw me. "I am sorry if I wake you up." This smile melted me in an instant. I didn't say what I wanted to say. I said, "Nothing, can I go get some water in the living room?" "Of course, I gave up the place."

When drinking water, everyone introduced themselves to each other. The two boys who had already lie down in their sleeping bags climbed up and shook hands with me. They are very young faces and look only in their early 20s. They are a band, come to New York from the North to perform, and go home after the show. They saw that I was not familiar with their hometown and said, "Approximately 5 hours drive north of New York." And excited to tell me:


"This is our first time in New York! You have everything here" Still a big smile and a hearty voice.

"You also brought my sleeping bag and air mattress. Such a well-prepared" I looked at his mattress while drinking water.

"Because I don't know where I am end up sleeping so I prepare myself."

"Where is the show tomorrow night?" I asked

"It was in the west village" Another boy lying down got up and answered me.

"There are a lot of good bars there, I like."

"Are there?" He was very excited and still squinted.


Young is so good.



This spectacular scene of lying in the living room like a corpse reminds me of my similar memories of the past few years. Also, when I was on a business trip in Boston, I didn't sleep in the hotel room. I often went to the air mattress in the brookline friend's apartment to talk about it at 2 o'clock and then 7 o'clock to work.

I don't know why, after drinking the water and returning to the room, the heart that was disturbed by the disturbance suddenly widened and slowly fell asleep. I slept very well this night. Woke up to the kitchen in the morning, I walked lightly across these "corpses", went to the kitchen to take the water and some to eat and leave.


Young people, I wish you all the best for the performance tonight.


07/04/2019 (Mexico City, Mexico)

I haven't seen you for a long time. Today is the 243-year-old birthday in the United States. I can take a holiday for 4 days this week. I was very happy when I got off work. I didn’t feel much about the holidays when I was at school. Now I have been internship until 4:30 this afternoon.

After the first year of graduate school, I went to Mexico for 17 days. It was after I took two years and a half to pick up my backpack and swim again, but I could no longer be in my early 20s. I remember that every time I returned to life at the end of my trip, I was always in love. I didn’t want to leave at the airport or on the plane, but this time I didn’t have any love for travel. I just wanted to go back to New York and start. Go to work, then don't want to leave.

Is it because Mexico is not good enough? No, this country has received me warmly and friendly. Is it something bad to do during a trip? There is indeed, but not a major event of personal injury. Afterwards, I also gained the care and unexpected surprises of others, and I forgot it after a few days after I left the place. Did you encounter any interesting people? It is also true that this is the 20th country I have traveled, and New York has gathered diverse cultures and races. There are so many different ideas and many people have seen them. My 18-25 years old also experienced too many changes in thoughts and values. The G-point is already very high. I feel that all kinds of travelers can feel the same with them, because this is the former self.

Of course, the most important thing is that I am mature. Everything has changed since I set foot on the land of the United States. I began to stop and lay down in one place and work hard to realize my dreams and ambitions. I am no longer confused about myself, I don’t need to travel to find myself. I spend more time on my loved ones and those who love myself than on making more friends. I have seen all kinds of people every day, and I have not seen much interest in the passengers I saw on the trip. There are many problems to be solved and faced here. The pressure of studying, life and employment has made me hard, so I don’t want to find a sinful affair when I am in the early 20s. Eat too much, plus the responsibility of the body, naturally in the strange country to be more careful. And even as an experienced traveler, I do think that women face more dangers in this world and when traveling alone. I am now intact, one is lucky, and the other is my heart and optimism.

In fact, after all, the end is that life is farewell to a stage and enters another stage. But I like it very much, maybe because I am in this city.

The place to go to work today is in Dumbo, Brooklyn, on the side of the East River, the closest Brooklyn to the Isle of Man. In the office, you can see both the Brooklyn Bridge and the Manhattan Bridge. Sometimes I will walk out of the company when I am tired in the afternoon. I can walk to the river for 2 minutes to see the southern skyline of the Isle of Man. I can also see many tourists. Take a photo here. More than two hundred years ago, European immigrants came to the United States. The ship entered here to enter the Isle of Man. People who came to the New World built the city a little bit. After so many years, the people who came here were still in a constant stream. Although the East River is named after the river, it is not far from the sea, and the waves are very big. I often stand here looking at the Isle of Man across the river, and my heart is full of emotions.

The summer in New York is wonderful, and most of the time is sunny. After a year of ups and downs, I finally got a rest and relaxation in the summer. Summer flowers are open, and you can always smell a scent when you walk on the road. The daylight is long, and when it is dark, it is always in the park or the grass can always see a flash of fireflies. Sometimes on the way to work, you will be attracted to the drama that is being played in the church, or go to the free concert in the park. There will always be an inexhaustible exhibition and an inexhaustible bar on the weekend, and occasionally bring a piece of cloth to the park to buy a cup of tea and watch the sun. Not to mention countless foods, endless dances, and music that will never stop in the subway. Even though the subway platform in New York is sultry, the companionship of music is always blaming. There are countless moments where you can stop, and the energy of culture and the air of art float in every corner of the city. The new and the old coincidence, the bustling and the dilapidated turmoil, the diversity is here.

The city gave me an unprecedented sense of pride and belonging, even if I walked down the street and felt proud. I want to praise New York with thousands of words. I feel that she may be the best compliment. I have to work hard to make every day good and everything is done. It is the most important thing in my initial stage. thing.

"Seize the moment and no fear to the future."


10/10/2019 (New York)

I have an unconscious hobby, and I have never realized that this is a good thing. I like to quietly take away a piece of a boy's object, or leave my object to them. Of course, these items are not valuable in price. Most of them are taken away or unconsciously taken away by his loose T-shirts, such as toothbrushes, small letters, dolls, soaps, walls. Shelf these things. These are not gifts, they are taken away or left behind. I still have a hobby, I like to watch their clothes, furnishings and colors in their apartment and room. It sounds like a voyeuristic, but I will ask them before I flip through it. So, it’s not a voyeur.

I saw a photo exhibition at Tisch today, and I realized that I was aware of the reasons behind this slap. This exhibition features photography of various clothing items, mentioning that the clothing pieces not only carry odor, temperature, story, thinking, dialogue; but also carry memory and time. All this has made us, the people we have loved, the places we have been, the stories we have experienced. Time is the real protagonist here. The clothing is the carrier of memory. Even if the protagonist of the story has left, as long as the object is in, the memory will not dissipate.

I remember that I have asked this question many times. "If anything can be put down, time can take away and scatter everything, what will be left behind." After reading this exhibition, I think of my unconscious hobbies, I found out that I want What remains is memory. I want him to remember me, so I left those things. I want to remember him, so I took his things away. Interestingly, only when the clothes were thrown into the washing machine, they found their clothes in my laundry bag. There were two impressions. My mom asked me why I bought such loose and worn clothes when I was helping my clothes, and I had to say that I bought it as a pajamas.

In addition to carrying the connection between people, the clothing part also symbolizes a part of a person's characteristics. This is also why I like to observe their room. The room is very private, the choice of bed linen color and materials, what books to read, how to place small objects, the color and characteristics of the wardrobe can reflect the innermost look of a person. Some people have a lot of monochrome in the closet, and occasionally a few colors. Some people have a few monochrome colors in the closet. Some people like natural fabrics such as linen and cotton, and some people like mixed fabrics. Some people have a lot of things, and some people have very few things. The relationship between people is generally to see themselves, see others, see others and their own connections. The pieces of clothing do reflect to some extent, bearing this subtle character and connection.

When I finished this exhibition, this photo appeared in my mind. That day, I saw him hanging my dress and hanging his black shirt outside the dress. A few days later, I put my gray thin shirt over his black shirt. When I left, I took this picture. In fact, I don't remember whether the gray shirt is hanging or hanging, but this photo reminds me of Ang Lee's movie Brokeback Mountain. At the end of the film, the man took out a piece of clothing in the closet, in fact, two pieces wrapped in another layer. The inside layer is the shirt of his dead lover, and the outer layer is his jacket. He held the dress and murmured "I promise". When I was interviewed by Ang Lee at a very young age, he talked about this shot. After trying a variety of expressions, he finally decided to shoot the back of the man with a lens. The line is also a simple word. I didn't remember anything in that interview. I remember this. Years later, when I looked at the wall and saw this similar scene, I knew in my heart that he loved me.

In fact, the depth of feelings, the degree of unforgettableness for a person, may be generally reflected in the clothing. In the "In the Mood for Love", Zhou Muyun took Su Lizhen's slippers, because that was the letter they wrote when they wrote the novel together. In the "Grandmaster," Lie asked the button of the coat that was prepared for the north, and retained the thought of the unfinished palace. When I started to live a new life on the other side of the globe, there was only one baggage around me, and there was a box in the bag. The box contained precious objects and was my precious memory. Taking someone's things to go, in fact, represents the most precious attention to that memory, and also represents unfinished thoughts and shortcomings. Take away or leave objects, precisely because there are still thoughts. It is not necessary to complete the thoughts, because the power and beauty of the thoughts are not in perfection, but in the blank.

I really like this kind of exhibition, only a few photos, but let me know more about myself.

12/10/2019 (New York)

The summer in New York is wonderful, and most of the time is sunny. After a year of ups and downs, I finally got a rest and relaxation in the summer. Summer flowers are open, and you can always smell a scent when you walk on the road. The daylight is long, and when it is dark, it is always in the park or the grass can always see a flash of fireflies. Sometimes on the way to work, you will be attracted to the drama that is being played in the church, or go to the free concert in the park. There will always be an inexhaustible exhibition and an inexhaustible bar on the weekend, and occasionally bring a piece of cloth to the park to buy a cup of tea and watch the sun. Not to mention countless foods, endless dances, and music that will never stop in the subway. Even though the subway platform in New York is sultry, the companionship of music is always blaming. There are countless moments where you can stop, and the energy of culture and the air of art float in every corner of the city. The new and the old coincidence, the bustling and the dilapidated turmoil, the diversity is here.
